Add Client Security Configurations in GraphQL Spec (#1105)
ballerina-platform/module-ballerina-graphql: docs/spec/spec.md

11. [Security](#11-security)
    * 11.1 [Authentication and Authorization](#111-authentication-and-authorization)
        * 11.1.1 [Declarative Approach](#1111-declarative-approach)
            * 11.1.1.1 [Listener - Basic Authentication - File User Store](#11111-listener---basic-authentication---file-user-store)
            * 11.1.1.2 [Listener - Basic Authentication - LDAP User Store](#11112-listener---basic-authentication---ldap-user-store)
            * 11.1.1.3 [Listener - JWT Authentication](#11113-listener---jwt-authentication)
            * 11.1.1.4 [Listener - OAuth2](#11114-listener---oauth2)
            * 11.1.1.5. [Client - Basic Authentication](#11115-client---basic-authentication)
            * 11.1.1.6. [Client - Bearer Token Authentication](#11116-client---bearer-token-authentication)
            * 11.1.1.7. [Client - Self Signed JWT Authentication](#11117-client---self-signed-jwt-authentication)

>             * 11.1.1.8. [Client - OAuth2](#11118-client---oauth2)

Reviewer: On second thoughts, I think it is better to break this into two parts.
```
11.1.1 Declarative Approach
    * 11.1.1.1 Service
        * 11.1.1.1.1 Basic Authentication - File User Store
        * ...
    *  11.1.1.2 Client
        * 11.1.1.2.1. Basic Authentication
        * ...
```

Looks cleaner for me. WDYT?

Author: +1. will do the same to SSL stuff

Author: Since we don't have imperative approach for client followed the below structure
```Security
11.1  Service Authentication and Authorization
    11.1.1 Declarative
    11.1.2 Imperative
11.2 Client Authentication and Authorization
11.3 SSL/TLS and Mutual SSL
   11.3.1 Listener
   11.3.2 Client
```

            * 11.1.2.2 [Basic Authentication - LDAP User Store](#11122-basic-authentication---ldap-user-store)
            * 11.1.2.3 [JWT Authentication](#11123-jwt-authentication)
            * 11.1.2.4 [OAuth2](#11124-oauth2)
    * 11.2 [Client Authentication and Authorization](#112-client-authentication-and-authorization)
        * 11.2.1. [Basic Authentication](#1121-basic-authentication)
        * 11.2.2. [Bearer Token Authentication](#1122-bearer-token-authentication)
        * 11.2.3. [Self Signed JWT Authentication](#1123-self-signed-jwt-authentication)
        * 11.2.4. [OAuth2](#1124-oauth2)
            * 11.2.4.1 [Client Credentials Grant Type](#11241-client-credentials-grant-type)
            * 11.2.4.2 [Password Grant Type](#11242-password-grant-type)

>             * 11.2.4.3 [Refresh Token Trant Type](#11243-refresh-token-trant-type)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            * 11.2.4.3 [Refresh Token Grant Type](#11243-refresh-token-grant-type)
```

Author: Fixed

}
```

### 11.2 Client Authentication and Authorization

Authentication and authorization in Ballerina GraphQL clients can be enabled using the declarative approach.

##### 11.2.1 Basic Authentication

> Ballerina GraphQL clients enable basic auth with credentials by setting the `graphql:CredentialsConfig` configurations in the client. The requests from the client are automatically enriched with the `Authorization: Basic <token>` header when passing the `graphql:CredentialsConfig` for the `auth` configuration of the client.

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't this be `authentication`?
```suggestion
Ballerina GraphQL clients enable basic authentication with credentials by setting the `graphql:CredentialsConfig` configurations in the client. The requests from the client are automatically enriched with the `Authorization: Basic <token>` header when passing the `graphql:CredentialsConfig` for the `auth` configuration of the client.
```

Author: Updated

###### Example: Client Using Declarative Basic Authentication

```ballerina
public function main() returns error? {
    graphql:Client graphqlClient = check new ("http://localhost:4000/graphql",
        auth = {
            username: "bob",
            password: "bob@123"
        }
    );

>     json response = check graphqlClient->execute("{ greeting }");

Author: Updated

###### Example: Client Using Declarative Self Signed JWT Authentication

```ballerina
public function main() returns error? {
    graphql:Client graphqlClient = check new ("http://localhost:4000/graphql",
        auth = {
            username: "ballerina",
            issuer: "wso2",
            audience: ["ballerina", "ballerina.org", "ballerina.io"],
            keyId: "5a0b754-895f-4279-8843-b745e11a57e9",
            jwtId: "JlbmMiOiJBMTI4Q0JDLUhTMjU2In",
            customClaims: {"scp": "admin"},
            expTime: 3600,
            signatureConfig: {
                config: {
                    keyFile: "path/to/private.key"
                }
            }
        }
    );
    json response = check graphqlClient->execute("{ greeting }");
    // ...
}
```

##### 11.2.4 OAuth2

Ballerina GraphQL clients enable authentication using OAuth2 by setting the `graphql:OAuth2GrantConfig` configurations in the client. The requests from the client are automatically enriched with the `Authorization: Bearer <token>` header when passing the `graphql:OAuth2GrantConfig` for the `auth` configuration of the client. OAuth2 can configure in following 4 ways

> ###### 11.2.4.1 Client Credentials Grant Type

Reviewer: Shall we add a small description (or link to the specific sections in the OAuth2 spec) for different grant types?

Author: Keeping this as it's for now since oauth2 module doesn't have separate section for grant type instead it's points to an rfc

graphql:Client graphqlClient = check new ("http://localhost:4000/graphql",
    auth = {
        tokenUrl: "https://localhost:9445/oauth2/token",
        clientId: "FlfJYKBD2c925h4lkycqNZlC2l4a",
        clientSecret: "PJz0UhTJMrHOo68QQNpvnqAY_3Aa",
        scopes: ["admin"],
        clientConfig: {
            secureSocket: {
                cert: "path/to/public.crt"
            }
        }
    }
);
```

###### 11.2.4.2 Password Grant Type

```ballerina
graphql:Client graphqlClient = check new ("http://localhost:4000/graphql",
    auth = {
        tokenUrl: "https://localhost:9445/oauth2/token",
        username: "admin",
        password: "admin",
        clientId: "FlfJYKBD2c925h4lkycqNZlC2l4a",
        clientSecret: "PJz0UhTJMrHOo68QQNpvnqAY_3Aa",
        scopes: ["admin"],
        refreshConfig: {
            refreshUrl: "https://localhost:9445/oauth2/token",
            scopes: ["hello"],
            clientConfig: {
                secureSocket: {
                    cert: "path/to/public.crt"
                }
            }
        },
        clientConfig: {
            secureSocket: {
                cert: "path/to/public.crt"
            }
        }
    }
);
```

> ###### 11.2.4.3 Refresh Token Trant Type

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
###### 11.2.4.3 Refresh Token Grant Type
```

Author: Fixed

```ballerina
graphql:Client graphqlClient = check new ("http://localhost:4000/graphql",
    auth = {
        refreshUrl: "https://localhost:9445/oauth2/token",
        refreshToken: "24f19603-8565-4b5f-a036-88a945e1f272",
        clientId: "FlfJYKBD2c925h4lkycqNZlC2l4a",
        clientSecret: "PJz0UhTJMrHOo68QQNpvnqAY_3Aa",
        scopes: ["admin"],
        clientConfig: {
            secureSocket: {
                cert: "path/to/public.crt"
            }
        }
    }
);
```

> ###### 11.2.4.4 JWT Bearer Grant Type

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
###### 11.2.4.4 JWT Bearer Token Grant Type
```

```ballerina
graphql:Client graphqlClient = check new ("http://localhost:4000/graphql",
    auth = {
        tokenUrl: "https://localhost:9445/oauth2/token",
        assertion: "eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6Ij[...omitted for brevity...]",
        clientId: "FlfJYKBD2c925h4lkycqNZlC2l4a",
        clientSecret: "PJz0UhTJMrHOo68QQNpvnqAY_3Aa",
        scopes: ["admin"],
        clientConfig: {
            secureSocket: {
                cert: "path/to/public.crt"
            }
        }
    }
);
```

### 11.3 SSL/TLS and Mutual SSL

> The GraphQL listener can connect or interact with a secured client. The `graphql:ListenerSecureSocket` configuration of the listener exposes the secure connection-related configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The GraphQL listener can be secured using SSL/TLS. The `graphql:ListenerSecureSocket` configuration of the GraphQL listener exposes the secure connection-related configurations.
```

### 11.3.1 Listener

#### 11.3.1.1 SSL/TLS

> The GraphQL listener can connect or interact with an HTTPS client using SSL/TLS. The `graphql:ListenerSecureSocket` can be used to configure the listener to expose an HTTPS connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The GraphQL listener can be secured to communicate via HTTPS using SSL/TLS. The `graphql:ListenerSecureSocket` can be used to configure the listener to expose an HTTPS connection.
```

                cert: "path/to/public.crt"
            }
        }
    }
);
```
###### 11.2.4.3 Refresh Token Grant Type

```ballerina
graphql:Client graphqlClient = check new ("http://localhost:4000/graphql",
    auth = {
        refreshUrl: "https://localhost:9445/oauth2/token",
        refreshToken: "24f19603-8565-4b5f-a036-88a945e1f272",
        clientId: "FlfJYKBD2c925h4lkycqNZlC2l4a",
        clientSecret: "PJz0UhTJMrHOo68QQNpvnqAY_3Aa",
        scopes: ["admin"],
        clientConfig: {
            secureSocket: {
                cert: "path/to/public.crt"
            }
        }
    }
);
```

###### 11.2.4.4 JWT Bearer Grant Type

```ballerina
graphql:Client graphqlClient = check new ("http://localhost:4000/graphql",
    auth = {
        tokenUrl: "https://localhost:9445/oauth2/token",
        assertion: "eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6Ij[...omitted for brevity...]",
        clientId: "FlfJYKBD2c925h4lkycqNZlC2l4a",
        clientSecret: "PJz0UhTJMrHOo68QQNpvnqAY_3Aa",
        scopes: ["admin"],
        clientConfig: {
            secureSocket: {
                cert: "path/to/public.crt"
            }
        }
    }
);
```

### 11.3 SSL/TLS and Mutual SSL

> The GraphQL listener can be secured using SSL/TLS. The `graphql:ListenerSecureSocket` configuration of the GraphQL listener exposes the secure connection-related configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Ballerina GraphQL listeners/clients can be used to communicate via a secured connection. This section defines the specifications for creating Ballerina GraphQL services and clients to communicate via a secured connection.
```

> The Ballerina GraphQL listeners/clients can be used to communicate via a secured connection. This section defines the specifications for creating Ballerina GraphQL services and clients to communicate via a secured connection.

Reviewer: Sorry, mistake.

```suggestion
The Ballerina GraphQL listeners/clients can be used to communicate via a secured connection. This section defines the specifications for creating Ballerina GraphQL listeners and clients to communicate via a secured connection.
```

}
```

### 11.3.2 Client

#### 11.3.2.1 SSL/TLS

> A GraphQL client with `graphql:ClientSecureSocket` configuration can invoke GraphQL services with SSL/TLS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A GraphQL client can communicate with a secured GraphQL service via SSL/TLS. The `graphql:ClientSecureSocket` configuration can be used to provide configurations related to SSL/TLS.
```

###### Example: GraphQL Client Using SSL/TLS

```ballerina
public function main() returns error? {
    graphql:Client graphqlClient = check new ("https://localhost:4000/graphql",
       secureSocket = {
            cert: "path/to/public.crt"
        }
    );
    json response = check graphqlClient->execute("{ greeting }");
    // ...
}
```

#### 11.3.2.2 Mutual SSL

> A GraphQL client can invoke GraphQL services with mutual SSL/TLS by passing the `graphql:ClientSecureSocket` for the `auth` configuration of the client along with the client certificate and key files via the `key` configuration of the `graphql:ClientSecureSocket`.

Reviewer: Suggesting this. Maybe we can improve this more.

```suggestion
A GraphQL client can communicate with a secured GraphQL service using mutual SSL. Mutual SSL can be enabled by providing the `graphql:ClientSecureSocket` value for the `auth` configuration of the client along with providing the client certificate and key files via the `key` configuration of the `graphql:ClientSecureSocket`.
```
